<h1 align="center">
📄 🔄 📦
</h1>
<h1 align="center"> File Distributor</h1>

<p align="center">A GitHub App for distributing files/templates to configured repositories in an organisation.</p>

---

This app monitors repositories for changes made to a repository template configuration detailing which templates the repository contains and which template conditions to use for rendering templates.

## Configuration

The app expects repositories to contain a `.github/templates.yaml` file containing the template configuration the repository uses.

The configuration has the following format:

```yaml
# The template version to use.
version: v10.7.0

# Whether to merge template changes automatically (optional).
automerge: true

# Templates to add to the repository (optional).
files:
  - source: path/to/template/filename.yaml
    destination: path/to/template-destination/filename.yaml
  # or
  - path/to/template/filename.yaml

# Configuration values for template formatting (optional).
values:
  someTemplateProperty: some-value
```

The app listens for `push` events to `main` or `master` in repositories which modify the repository configuration.

The app then pulls the repository configuration, downloads templates and processes templates according to the repository configuration.

Processed templates are then submitted to the repository as a PR. If `automerge` is enabled, the PR is merged automatically.

A template prefix for `files` with relative paths can be given to the application as the environment variable `TEMPLATE_PATH_PREFIX`.
All `files` without a `source` and `destination` specified will be prepended with this path prefix.

## Templates

Templates support the full [Mustache template language](https://mustache.github.io) tags with the delimiters `<<<` and `>>>`.

Logic is handled as follows using a `YAML` template as an example:

```yaml
on:
  push:

jobs:
  build:
    steps:
      - name: Checkout <<<repositoryName>>>
        uses: actions/checkout@v3.0.2
        #<<<^shouldCheckoutCode>>>
        if: false
        #<<</shouldCheckoutCode>>>

      #<<<#shouldLoginToDockerHub>>>
      - name: Login to DockerHub
        uses: docker/login-action@v2.0.0
        with:
          username: pleodeployments
          password: $<<< secrets.DOCKERHUB_TOKEN >>>
      #<<</shouldLoginToDockerHub>>>
```

See the [Mustache manual](https://mustache.github.io/mustache.5.html) for more information on the template syntax.

### Default values

The templates can contain a `defaults.yaml` file in the same format as the repository configuration.

These defaults are used for validating any changes made in repositories. As an example, if a default value is set to an integer, template configuration changes to that value are also expected to be an integer.

## Implementation

A high-level overview of how the logic flows in the implementation can be seen in [this overview](docs/Overview.md).

## Setup

```sh
# Install dependencies
yarn

# Build the bot
yarn build

# Build and run the bot
yarn build:run

# Run the bot
yarn start
```

### Creating a GitHub App for local testing

- Create a new `smee` channel at [smee.io](https://smee.io/)
- Create a GitHub App for local development at [github.com/settings/apps/new](https://github.com/settings/apps/new)
- Set the `smee` URL as the _Webhook URL_ in the GitHub App settings
- Add a _Webhook secret_ in the GitHub App settings
- Set the following permissions in the GitHub App settings
  - Repository permissions
    - Checks: `read/write`
    - Contents: `read/write`
    - Pull requests: `read/write`
    - Workflows: `read/write`
  - Organisation permissions
    - Events: `read`
- Set the following event subscriptions in the GitHub App settings
  - Push
  - Pull request
- Save the changes to the GitHub App settings
- Generate and add a _Private key_ in the GitHub App settings
- Enable _SSL verification_ in the GitHub App settings
- Save the changes to the GitHub App settings
- Set the _App ID_, _Webhook URL_, _Webhook secret_ and _Private key_ in a `.env` file in the root of this repository
- Install the GitHub App on a repository/organisation to generate events
- Done 🎉

## Docker

```sh
# 1. Build container
docker build -t file-distributor .

# 2. Start container
docker run \
  -e APP_ID=<app-id> \
  -e PRIVATE_KEY=<pem-value> \
  -e WEBHOOK_SECRET=<webhook-secret> \
  -e TEMPLATE_REPOSITORY_NAME=<template-repository-name> \
  -e TEMPLATE_REPOSITORY_OWNER=<template-repository-owner> \
  -e TEMPLATE_FILE_PATH=.github/templates.yaml \
  -e PREPENDING_HEADER_TEMPLATE="# THIS CODE WAS AUTOGENERATED." \
  -e TEMPLATE_PATH_PREFIX=templates/ \
  file-distributor
```

## Environment variables

The app expects the following environment variables to be present:

```
WEBHOOK_PROXY_URL=https://smee.io/development-url-here

APP_ID=app-id-here
PRIVATE_KEY_PATH=private-key.pem
WEBHOOK_SECRET=secret-here

TEMPLATE_REPOSITORY_NAME=template-repository
TEMPLATE_REPOSITORY_OWNER=template-repository-owner
```

## Contributing

If you have suggestions for how `file-distributor` could be improved, or want to report a bug, open an issue! We'd love all and any contributions.

For more, check out the [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

[Unlicense](LICENSE) © 2022 pleo-oss
